/*
  title: bluetooth Profiles
  sort: 2
  */

KEYWORDS: bluetooth

**A2DP** – A2DP stands for ‘Advanced Audio Distribution Profile’ and is a Bluetooth protocol that allows mobile users to stream high quality (stereo or mono) audio wirelessly. If you want to listen to your music on a pair of Bluetooth headphones or speakers both devices need to support this.

**AVRCP** – AVRCP stands for ‘Audio/Video Remote Control Profile’ and is a Bluetooth profile that allows devices to control media playback on remote devices. It is typically used with A2DP devices for next/previous track selection and pause/play functions when streaming music.

**HFP** – HFP stands for ‘Hands Free Protocol’ and is a Bluetooth profile to enable a two-way wireless speaker-phone to be used with a Bluetooth phone. Its most common use is with car kits. HFP is one of the most common Bluetooth profiles. Nearly all phones support it, including ones that do not support Headset Profile (HSP). Since all modern Bluetooth headsets support both HSP and HFP, phones without HSP can still use Bluetooth headsets via HFP. HFP does not support stereo.

**HSP** – HSP stands for ‘Headset Profile’ and is a Bluetooth profile to enable a two-way wireless headset to be used with a Bluetooth phone. Headset is one of the most common Bluetooth profiles and supports simultaneous two-way (full-duplex) audio, but it does not support stereo audio. HSP can be used with devices other than phones. For example, a Bluetooth headset could be used with a Bluetooth-enabled PC and VoIP software to place an Internet phone call.