/*
  Title: BLE Connection Failure
  Sort: 2
  */

KEYWORDS: bluetooth qcom

## Description

BLE Connection failure contains two types of issues as below:

- Fail to create a connection

- Disconnection happens unexpected


Generally speaking, logs of both Peripheral and Central are needed.


## Check list for issue 1.

Peripheral

•	Check whether Advertising is enabled in the btsnoop log before the issue happens. Make sure the last status of advertising is enabled since in some scenarios, app will disable it.

•	Check the device address of advertising since Peripheral may use different random address to advertise.

•	Check the adv interval, if Peripheral uses a big adv interval, it would take much more time for Central to discover and connect to it.

•	Check whether Peripheral is advertising when the issue happens through OTA log.


Central

•	Check whether scanning is enabled in the btsnoop log before the issue happens. Make sure the last status of scanning is enabled since in some scenarios, app will disable it.

•	Check whether there are adv reports from any Peripherals or not in btsnoop log.

•	Check the scanning parameters in HCI create connection command in the btsnoop log. If scan window/scan interval is less than 0.5, it would take much more time for Central to discover and connect to the peripheral.

•	Check the status of events below, if it`s not “success”, open a case to BLE team.

    o	LE Enhanced Connection Complete

    o	Read Remote Used Features Complete


## Check list for issue 2

•	Check the conditions of issue happening,

    o	If issue only happens when WiFi is on, please open a case to BTC team; if not, to BLE team.
    
    o	If issue happens with concurrence of other Bluetooth operations like A2DP/OBEX, open a case to BLE team.
    
•	Check whether reference device has the same issue with the remote device or not, if not, reference logs are mandatory.

•	Check the reason in the event Disconnection Complete.

    o	If it`s Connection Terminated by Local Host, check logcat of DUT whether the disconnection is expected or not.
    
    o	If it`s Remote User Terminated Connection, check logcat of remote whether the disconnection is expected or not.
    
    o	If it`s Connection Timeout, open a case to BLE team to check further. OTA log may be mandatory for judging the reason of connection timeout.
    

