/*
 Title: Mac Header -- Sequence Control
 Sort: 2
 */
 
KEYWORDS: 802.11 Sequence Control

The Sequence Control field is 16 bits in length and consists of two
subfields, the Sequence Number and the Fragment Number. The sequence
Control field is not present in control frames (as no frame body). The
format of the Sequence Control field is shown below.

![18](%image_url%/2016/2016011818.png)

**Sequence Number**  
The Sequence Number field is a 12-bit field indicating the sequence
number of an MSDU, A-MSDU, or MMPDU. Each MSDU, A-MSDU, or MMPDU
transmitted by a STA is assigned a sequence number.The sequence number
remains constant in all retransmissions of an MSDU, MMPDU, or fragment
thereof.  

**Fragment Number**  
The Fragment Number field is a 4-bit field indicating the number of
each fragment of an MSDU or MMPDU. The fragment number is set to 0 in
the first or only fragment of an MSDU or MMPDU and is incremented by
one for each successive fragment of that MSDU or MMPDU. The fragment
number remains constant in all retransmissions of the fragment. 

Fragments are always sent in what is known as a “fragment burst“. Once
Tx STA gains control of the medium, it maintains control through NAV
Duration values & SIFS. Value of the Duration field in the MAC header
of first fragment is used to reserve the medium for the next
fragment. If a fragment is not acknowledged, then retries begin at
unacknowledged fragment (using DIFS) & not beginning of the original
MSDU.

![19](%image_url%/2016/2016011819.png)

Below shows an example for a STA configured with a fragmentation
threshold (min 256 byte) of 300 bytes. So any MSDU larger than 300
bytes will be fragmented. Fragmentation does not take into account
frame body expansion due to encryption, thus encrypted fragment may
exceed the fragmentation threshold. Given example consider non-QoS
data frame with MAC header size of 24 bytes (ie 32 -6 -2 bytes where 6
byte less for 4th address field & 2 bytes less for no QoS control
field) and 4 byte CRC. So fragment size should be 272 bytes (300-28).

![20](%image_url%/2016/2016011820.png)

The first fragment to be transmitted will be fragment#0 & the More
Fragment bit in the Frame Control bit set to 1. The More Fragments bit
will stay to 1 until the last fragment, at which time it will change
to 0 indicating that there is no more fragments (fragment#4 in the
below).

![21](%image_url%/2016/2016011821.png)

