/*
  Title: Plugin Development Notes on Notepad++
  Sort: 2
  */

KEYWORDS: notepad++

## header files
- Notepad_plus_msgs.h   
- PluginInterface.h   

## Notes
1. Keep one thing in mind : Send all unicode messages to Notepad++ in unicode mode, but send ansi message to scintilla in both ANSI and UNICODE mode.
```c++
using namespace std;
anbsp;
#ifdef UNICODE
#define string wstring
#endif
```

2. You must indeed prepare for getting Unicode strings and paths from Notepad++. Don't forget BOMs when applicable.
```C++
#ifdef UNICODE
   WCHAR	wText[65];
   ListView_GetItemText(_hListCtrl, _pCurProp->cursorItem, _pCurProp->cursorSubItem, wText, SUBITEM_LENGTH);
   wText[_pCurProp->cursorPos] = (TCHAR)wParam;
   ::WideCharToMultiByte(CP_ACP, 0, wText, -1, text, SUBITEM_LENGTH, NULL, NULL);
#else
   ListView_GetItemText(_hListCtrl, _pCurProp->cursorItem, _pCurProp->cursorSubItem, text, SUBITEM_LENGTH);
#endif
```

3. Again, the trick is to use the right API variant and send/receive strings in the right format. Don't forget using the TCHAR Windows macro type for individual characters, it will help flatten differences out.
```C++
#ifdef UNICODE
  static WCHAR wText[129] = _T("\0");
  ::MultiByteToWideChar(CP_ACP, 0, text, -1, wText, 129);
  lvItem->pszText = wText;
#else
  lvItem->pszText = text;
#endif
```

4. Remember that Scintilla always stores things in ANSI or UTF-8. Please refer to the Scintilla documentation on UTF-8 encoding messages if you wish to directly access Scintilla's buffers.
```C++
void CXBrackets::OnNppSetInfo(const NppData& nppd)
{
   m_PluginMenu.setNppData(nppd);
   isNppWndUnicode = ::IsWindowUnicode(nppd._nppHandle) ? true : false;
}
```

```C++
  if ( isNppWndUnicode )
   {
       nppOriginalWndProc = (WNDPROC) SetWindowLongPtrW( 
         m_nppMsgr.getNppWnd(), GWLP_WNDPROC, (LONG_PTR) nppNewWndProc );
   }
   else
   {
       nppOriginalWndProc = (WNDPROC) SetWindowLongPtrA( 
         m_nppMsgr.getNppWnd(), GWLP_WNDPROC, (LONG_PTR) nppNewWndProc );

```

## The Common Plugin Interface

- **bool isUnicode()**
A plugin is designed to either work with an ANSI or Unicode build of Notepad++. ANSI plugins must not define this function. Unicode plugins must define it, and it must return true.

- **void setInfo(NppData)**
This routine is called when the plugin is loaded, providing it with information on the current instance of Notepad++ – namely, an array of three handles for:   
 1. the main Notepad++ window   
 2. the primary Scintilla control   
 3. the secondary Scintilla control

Any NPPM_ or WM_ message can be sent to the main Notepad++ window. Any WM_ and SCI_ message can be sent to either Scintilla control. The Scintilla documentation recommends against the use of EM_ messages, though a subset is emulated.

- const TCHAR* getName()   
  Returns name of the plugin, to appear in the Plugin menu.

- FuncItem *getFuncsArray(int *)
  Retrieves a pointer to an array of structures that describe the exposed functions. The expected length of the array is the value pointed by the argument. There must be at least one such routine. Provide one that displays some sort of About dialog box if there is otherwise no need for a menu entry - a typical case for external lexers.

- void beNotified(SciNotification *notif)
  This procedure will be called by Notepad++ for a variety of reasons. The complete list of codes is to be found on the Messages And Notifications. It should handle these tasks using information passed in the notification header.

- LRESULT messageProc(UINT message, WPARAM wParam, LPARAM lParam)
  This is a message processor handling any message Notepad++ has to pass on.

The last two routines, if not needed, may have an empty body, but they must be defined.

Each of the above functions must be defined with the following link information, couched in C++ terms: <source lang="c++"> extern "C" __declspec(dllexport) </source> If the plugin is not being developed in C++, consult your compiler or interpreter documentation to find out how to generate a .DLL that conforms with those expectations. E.g. for XDS Oberon that would be something like: PROCEDURE ["C"] isUnicode*(): BOOLEAN.

## reference
<http://docs.notepad-plus-plus.org/index.php/Plugin_Development>

[plugin examples](https://sourceforge.net/projects/npp-plugins/files/)