/*
  Title: the process of traffic transmission after the end of DIFS
  Sort: 2
*/

## Question Description:
Suppose we have 3 wireless clients. A,B and C. C is sending packets on the wireless channel.As soon as it receives the last ACK from the AP with a NAV of 0, the DIFS starts ticking. NOW, after the end of DIFS the CW sarts off. Suppose client A randomly selects a slot time of 2 and B selects a slot time of 4. I would like to understand the process of traffic transmission after this.

## Answer:   
B and C would count down in parallel (and each would ignore that the other one picked a CW and is counting down). At each number down (3 for B and 1 for A), both would listen to the channel to check if there is any signal detected (the signal has to be a certain strength, defined as 20 dBM above the minimum sensitivity defined by the 802.11 standard for that band, most of the time we say that the signal should be about -65 dBm to be read, but it is a bit more complicated than that). If there is a signal, each detecting station would try to see if it can detect an 802.11 header that would tell them the duration of the transmission (Duration field in the header). If that field can be read, then each detecting station adds this duration to its CW and restarts counting down from the new number. If the duration field is not read but the signal is strong enough, each detecting station stops counting down and listens to the air at each slot time (as if the station was counting down, but the CW does not decrease) until the signal is gone. The stations then resume their countdown. A funny aspect is that if one station hears the signal above the threshold (say -65 dBm) it will stop counting down for the duration of the signal, but if the other station is farther away from the signal source, it may hear it way below the threshold and simply ignore it (continuing to count down).
If both stations heard the signal the same way, A will get down to 0, listen to the medium, find it silent, and will start sending its frame. At this point B (still left at 2 in the countdown) would hear A signal, would try to read the duration field, and would restart counting down from 2+duration field...

