/*
 Title: [wpa_supplicant]wpas_p2p_group_delete: Removing STA connection in case of group	formation failure
 Sort: 2
 */

###问题描述  
When we are doing concurrent p2p connection (STA + P2P-GO) using
dynamic interface, after some trails the GO-NEG fails which is causing
the STA connection to be deauthenticated.


###问题分析  
1. NEG_FAIL失败的原因  
the reason for failing the add_iface is because we have exceeded the maximum number of VIF's. So we are ok with p2p GO-NEG failing, but the problem is it disconnects the STA interface.  

2. 问题初步分析  
(1) It looks like some of the calls in at least one of
the error paths end up getting going through both p2p-wlan0-# and wlan0
interface when handling this type of failure case. The pending
p2p-wlan0-# instance gets removed properly, but wlan0 instance should
not have tried to remove the pending P2P group since it was not on that
instance in the first place. 

(2).  The reason for GO-NEG fail is that "add_iface" is failing, so
 "p2p_group_interface" is not set, but in
 wpas_p2p_group_delete based on the below condition we are deleting the
 STA managed interface.  

wpas_p2p_group_delete() should not be called on the non-P2P station
interface..  
```c
         else if (wpa_s->p2p_group_interface == P2P_GROUP_INTERFACE_CLIENT ||
                  (ssid && ssid->mode == WPAS_MODE_INFRA)) {
                 wpa_s->reassociate = 0;
                 wpa_s->disconnected = 1;
                 gtype = "client";
```
 **Is there any reason for checking INFRA mode in p2p module?**  
 Yes, WPAS_MODE_INFRA is used for P2P Client as well as non-P2P station.  

(3) Solution  
It was possible for a P2P group formation failure to result in a
concurrent station mode operation getting disconnected in the specific
error case where group interface addition fails after a successful GO
Negotiation. Fix this by skipping the wpas_p2p_group_delete() call in
this specific case since the group interface does not exists anymore at
the point wpas_group_formation_completed() gets called.  





